Let's begin with some basic math and comments.
So here we are in a brand new notebook file.
And what I'm going to do is write four asterisk five.
So the asterisk actually has multiple meanings in Python depending on the context.
But when the asterisk is surrounded by numbers or by variables that represent numbers, then the asterisk
is interpreted as multiplication.
Okay.
So we know that four times five is 20 because I'm a math genius.
So that's how I know that.
And this gives us a nice confirmation here.
Okay.
And this works for numbers.
It works for uh, you know with decimals as well.
So four times 5.5 gives us an answer of 22.
We can do, you know, some really ridiculously high precision number.
I actually don't know what that answer is in my head, but Python tells me that it's 22.37, etc. and
for this kind of stuff, I definitely trust Python more than I trust my own arithmetic brain.
Okay, so you can already pause the video, take a moment and play around with this stuff.
You can see, for example, what happens if we include spaces in here.
So is this still a valid operation and is this any different from this?
Well, you can pause the video and discover that for yourself.
Uh, but now I will tell you the answer is no.
It doesn't matter if we have spaces.
Now, spaces in Python is a little bit tricky.
There are situations in Python where spacing is really important, and it tells Python how to structure
code.
Uh, but there are other situations where spacing is irrelevant.
So I can put in all these spaces in here.
And Python is going to completely ignore all of these spaces.
Again, there are other situations where spacing is really important, but you will get the hang of
it as we go on.
Okay, so this is multiplying two numbers.
Here's a question.
what's going to happen if I include another number in here?
So four times five times four.
Well no problem.
We get an answer of 80.
Very straightforward.
Okay.
What I'm going to introduce you to now is something called a comment.
And before I start talking about comments notice the coloring here.
So we have two colors in this line of code.
Here we have this like dark green color for the numbers.
And then the asterisk is in black.
Okay.
So now what I'm going to do is put a hash mark here and I will write a comment.
Literally just writing a comment.
So now I'm going to run this line of code and this code cell and nothing happens.
It did run.
We see a check mark here.
It took zero seconds to run this code but it didn't do anything.
Now, if I would get rid of that hash mark, you see the color change.
So now these are black.
This text is in black instead of green.
And now when I run this code, we get an error.
And the error is invalid.
Syntax.
So what does this mean?
This means that Python gives us a special way to write information, to write text that is useful for
us as humans for interpreting the code, but is completely ignored by Python.
Okay.
And that is the hash mark.
Now, in these notebooks, there's a keyboard shortcut on the Mac.
It is command.
And then slash the slash and uh, and question mark key.
And on Windows and Linux computers it's going to be command and then slash okay.
So here just to show you we have four times five.
So this is still a perfectly valid line of code.
Uh but this is completely ignored.
And now I can comment this line.
And now we know we get no, uh, result here.
And why do we get no result here?
Because this is a comment.
This is a piece of text that is completely ignored by Python.
Okay.
And you can have comments in lines completely on their own.
Like this.
You can also have comments after a valid line of code.
So for example three times four.
And now this actually is going to be evaluated.
That gives us the number 12.
This is ignored.
It's a comment and this is ignored.
It's a comment.
Okay.
So that's for multiplication.
We can do division using this slash mark here.
So three divided by four is three fourths or 0.75.
And yeah you can do this as much as you like.
You can play around with this a little bit.
And now let's try addition.
So three plus five again I know the answer should be eight because I'm a super duper math genius.
And the answer is eight.
But hey wait a minute.
What happened to the result of three divided by 40?
Did Python no longer run this line of code and it only ran this line of code?
Actually, what happened here is that Python ran both of these lines of code, but it produces the output,
or it displays the output only for the last line in a code cell.
So you can have lots of lines of code within an individual code cell, but only the final one is going
to display the output.
But what if we want to know the results of this calculation?
There are several ways we can do that.
We can assign this to a variable and then print it out later.
I will get back to that in a later video.
For now, for the context of this video, I'm going to introduce you to your first Python function.
And that is the function print.
So here I write the word print.
And I have an open parenthesis and then a closed parenthesis.
And inside the parentheses is some, you know, results, some expression that I want to print.
And that is going to tell Python to print out whatever is the result of this evaluation inside the parentheses
in the output.
So we get three divided by 40 from this line.
And then the eight is from this line here three plus five okay.
Here again we see some spaces in here.
Uh I like putting spaces in this kind of a situation inputs into a function, because I find that it
helps me visually understand what is taking place in this line of code.
But this is another situation where the parentheses are, sorry, where the spaces are completely optional.
So Python does not distinguish any of these spaces like this.
They are all fine.
They all give exactly identical results.
To me this looks really ugly and awkward and more difficult to interpret, but for Python it's all exactly
the same.
Okay, so in my humble opinion this looks more readable, but you are free to disagree with me.
You will get to develop your own coding style as you continue working with Python.
Okay, so now we have the different operations.
Of course this is how you do subtraction.
And let's see I will show you one other arithmetic operation which is power or exponents.
So here is three times two.
Three times two is six.
But what if we want three to the power of two.
Uh, you might think of doing something like this.
If you are familiar with LaTeX coding, this is how you would superscript something.
Uh, if you are coming from other programming languages like Matlab, for example, this is how you
would get three squared or three to the power of two.
In Python you need to use double asterisks like this.
So one asterisk is for multiplication.
Two asterisks next to each other is for a power or exponentiation.
So this gives us an answer of nine because uh yeah that is two squared.
Okay.
And then, uh, one final thing I did say this was the last thing I will show, but now I'm going to
show you one more thing and that is parentheses.
Okay.
So if we want three cubed of course you can write three cubed out like this.
But you can also add these numbers together.
And you know maybe this is relevant inside a for loop if you are increasingly exponentiating three or
something like that.
So this is how you would get this is how you would group these numbers together, which is different
from this formulation where we have ten now y is ten.
The answer here, because there is something in arithmetic called the order of operations.
And the order of operations, tells us to prioritize power over addition.
So in fact, with this code here, like this, Python is interpreting three squared first.
So that is nine.
And then adding one.
So that gives us ten okay.
But what we actually want to do here is three to the power of two plus one which is 27.
So three cubed.